10865
♪ Upbeat music ♪ 
Hey.
Hi - Oh, hey. There you are.
Hello, world.
Hello, world! 
I work for a company called Panic.
Cinema 4D.
Baldur's Gate 3.
I've been at Adobe for over 20 years.
At Panic, we make Mac software.
A coding app for kids.
mmhmm helps people be less boring on video.
When we first heard about Apple silicon on Mac -- We're announcing that the Mac is transitioning...
to our own Apple silicon.
 Yes! 
It blew my mind.
One word was: amazing.
We were just waiting for this specific moment.
What does this mean for the desktop? 
A device that we all think we know so well.
We got the first developer units as soon as they were announced.
This was the easiest transition that we've ever had.
Getting our apps ready for Apple silicon on Mac literally took us a day.
We didn't really have to do anything to port to them.
Hit the Run button. - Took me 10 minutes.
Here we are. We got this, we got this, we got this.
Boom! 
Wow.
You immediately notice that it's incredibly fast.
We can move much faster.
There are some operations which are really quite remarkable.
Select Object, we've seen that operation up to eight times faster.
We can travel the entire world of the Forgotten Realms without any kind of texture popping.
It was rendering...
...three times faster.
Four times.
- Much, much faster.
 People are going to be blown away.
There's some dark magic at work, and I don't know what it is.
It just feels super smooth.
Super smooth.
 You don't have to use any of that.
 For us, it's always about...
the power.
The more powerful the computer is, the more we can have fun in our apps.
For example, using Core ML to automatically detect hand position.
Edit 8K RAW footage.
Hundreds of thousands of layers.
Millions of objects.
Almost limitless interactivity.
Rotate, zoom.
We keep zooming in.
Keep zooming in some more.
At this point, we're 100 million percent zoomed in.
The future that I dream of -- Let me look into the crystal ball! 
A seamless workflow from your phone or your iPad to your Mac.
Pushing the limits on each and every surface.
You open that giant file and boom! It's there.
See the infiniteness in what you can create.
It's just a different level of what we thought was ever going to be possible.
We are in the future right now. 
This is going to be huge.
What can't we do with Apple silicon on Mac? 
Um...
That's a super good question.
♪